Amniocentesis is a medical procedure
performed during pregnancy
to obtain a small amount of fluid
from the amniotic sac.
The amniotic sac and fluid
surround and protect the fetus.
Live skin cells from the fetus
are shed into the fluid.
An amniocentesis test is performed with
ultrasound to guide the procedure
and avoid harming the fetus.
The fluid is obtained by inserting a
fine needle through the abdomen
into the uterus
and withdrawing a small amount of amniotic fluid.
Examining DNA from skin cells in the fluid
can identify a genetic disorder
or chromosome abnormality
such as Down’s syndrome.
Amniocentesis is usually performed
between the 16th and 20th weeks of pregnancy.